DOC: Update numpy4matlab (#17159)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/user/numpy-for-matlab-users.rst

Introduction
============

MATLAB® and NumPy have a lot in common, but NumPy was created to work with
Python, not to be a MATLAB clone.  This guide will help MATLAB users get started
with NumPy. 

.. raw:: html

   <style>
   table.docutils td { border: solid 1px #ccc; }
   </style>

Some key differences
====================

> .. list-table::
> 

Reviewer: I think this will enable the formatting in the `.. raw` directive on line 14 (if I got the blank line and the number of spaces before the `:class:`)

```suggestion
.. list-table::
   :class: docutils

```

Introduction
============

MATLAB® and NumPy have a lot in common, but NumPy was created to work with
Python, not to be a MATLAB clone.  This guide will help MATLAB users get started
with NumPy. 

.. raw:: html

   <style>
   table.docutils td { border: solid 1px #ccc; }
   </style>

Some key differences
====================

.. list-table::
   :class: docutils

   * - In MATLAB, the basic type, even for scalars, is a

>        multidimensional array. Array assignments in MATLAB are stored as

Author: I think this makes more sense on L34, when we reference n-dimensional arrays in NumPy. 
```
assignments in NumPy are usually stored as :ref:`n-dimensional arrays <arrays>` 
```

>        multidimensional array. Array assignments in MATLAB are stored as

Author: Added the reference to `<arrays>` on L34 in commit: de298885a4725889512e8172534d134b630c4da6

       specify the number of dimensions and type.  Operations on the 2D
       instances of these arrays are modeled on matrix operations in
       linear algebra. 

     - In NumPy, the basic type is a multidimensional ``array``.  Array

>        assignments in NumPy are usually stored as ND arrays with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       assignments in NumPy are usually stored as n-dimensional arrays with the
```
`ND`, while consistent, might be cryptic. I think it's reasonable to say `n-dimensional`. I apologize if I steered you in the wrong direction.

       specify the number of dimensions and type. NumPy performs
       operations element-by-element, so multiplying 2D arrays with
       ``*`` is not a matrix multiplication -- it's an
       element-by-element multiplication. (The ``@`` operator, available
       since Python 3.5, can be used for conventional matrix
       multiplication.)

   * - MATLAB numbers indices from 1; ``a(1)`` is the first element.
       :ref:`See note INDEXING <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`
     - NumPy, like Python, numbers indices from 0; ``a[0]`` is the first
       element.

   * - MATLAB's scripting language was created for linear algebra so the
       syntax for some array manipulations is more compact than
       NumPy's. On the other hand, the API for adding GUIs and creating 
       full-fledged applications is more or less an afterthought.
     - NumPy is  based on Python, a
       general-purpose language.  The advantage to NumPy
       is access to Python libraries including: `SciPy
       <https://www.scipy.org/>`_, `Matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_,
       `Pandas <https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_, `OpenCV <https://opencv.org/>`_,

>        and more. In addition to Python-specific packages, much `scientific
>        computing software
>        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Python_software#Embedded_as_a_scripting_language>`_
>        use Python as a scripting language. 

Reviewer 3: Looking at that list, not a particularly large fraction of the applications strike me as "scientific computing". I'd be inclined to either throw out this sentence, or phrase it as:
```suggestion
       and more. In addition, Python is often `embedded as a scripting language
       <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Python_software#Embedded_as_a_scripting_language>`_
       in other software, allowing NumPy to be used there too. 
```

   * - In MATLAB, arrays have pass-by-value semantics, with a lazy
       copy-on-write scheme to prevent creating copies until they
       are needed.  Slice operations copy parts of the array.
     - In NumPy, arrays have pass-by-reference semantics.  Slice operations
       are views into an array.

Rough equivalents
=======================================

The table below gives rough equivalents for some common MATLAB
expressions. These are similar expressions, not equivalents. For
details, see the `documentation

> <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/routines.html>`_. 

Reviewer 3: This should be an internal Sphinx. I don't remember the exact syntax...

Author: So the Routines index.html start with reference:
`.. _reference:`
But using this `documentation <reference>` can't find that index page. I'm having a bit of trouble figuring out the rst cross-refs. 

@bjnath and @melissawm do you know how to get that cross-ref?

<reference.reference>`_. 

In the table below, it is assumed that you have executed the following
commands in Python:

::

    import numpy as np
    from scipy import io, integrate, linalg, signal
    from scipy.sparse.linalg import eigs

Also assume below that if the Notes talk about "matrix" that the
arguments are two-dimensional entities.

General purpose equivalents
---------------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **MATLAB**
     - **NumPy**
     - **Notes**

   * - ``help func``
     - ``info(func)`` or ``help(func)`` or ``func?`` (in IPython)
     - get help on the function *func*

   * - ``which func``

>      - `see note HELP <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`_

Reviewer 3: This doesn't appear to work properly. I can only assume the `__` was necessary.

     - find out where *func* is defined

   * - ``type func``

>      - ``source(func)`` or ``func??`` (in IPython)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - ``inspect.source(func)`` or ``func??`` (in IPython)
```

Reviewer 3: I think this was meant to say
```suggestion
     - ``np.source(func)`` or ``func??`` (in IPython)
```
where `np.source` is essentially just a thin wrapper around `inspect.getsource`

   * - ``% comment``
     - ``# comment``
     - comment a line of code with the text ``comment``

   * - ::

         for i=1:3
             fprintf('%i\n',i)
         end

     - ::

         for i in range(1, 4):
            print(i)

>      - use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3 using `range

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3 using :func:`range`
```
And delete the url below.

Author: > And delete the url below.

my html did not generate a link with this change. Is there a way to specify Python instead of NumPy function?

>      - use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3 using :func:`range`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3 using :py:class:`range <range>`
```

   * - ``a && b``
     - ``a and b``

>      - short-circuiting logical  AND operator (Python native operator);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   - short-circuiting logical AND operator (:ref:`Python native operator <python:boolean>`);
```

MATLAB® and NumPy/SciPy have a lot in common. But there are many
differences. NumPy and SciPy were created to do numerical and scientific
computing in the most natural way with Python, not to be MATLAB clones.
This page is intended to be a place to collect wisdom about the
differences, mostly for the purpose of helping proficient MATLAB users

> become proficient NumPy and SciPy users.

Reviewer 2: Suggested wording:

MATLAB® and NumPy have a lot in common, but NumPy  was created to
work with Python, not to be a MATLAB clone. This guide will help MATLAB 
users get started with NumPy.

(Unable to submit this as a "suggested change"; GitHub says "Applying suggestions on deleted lines is not supported.")

Author: I incorporated the change.

.. list-table::

   * - In MATLAB®, you can create multidimensional arrays. By default,
       MATLAB® creates two dimensional arrays of double precision floating point
       numbers.  Most expressions take such arrays and return arrays.
       Operations on the 2-D instances of these arrays are designed to act 
       like matrix operations in linear algebra.

     - In NumPy the basic type is a multidimensional ``array``.  Operations
       on these arrays in all dimensionalities including 2D are element-wise

>        operations.  One needs to use specific functions for linear algebra

Reviewer 3: The way this was worded before was nice, because the sentence had similar structure in both columns. Can you try to bring the two cells into a similar sentence structure?

Author: That's a good idea, I'll make make the structure similar in both. The main edit here was to highlight

* Matlab default = 2D arrays
* NumPy default = 0D or 1D arrays

Reviewer 3: I'd say perhaps more relevant is:

* Matlab: 2 or more dimensional arrays, default double
* Numpy: n-dimensional arrays, default varies

Lets see what others think.

Author: > I'd say perhaps more relevant is:
> 
> * Matlab: 2 or more dimensional arrays, default double
> * Numpy: n-dimensional arrays, default varies

I like that. In this case, one of the benefits of NumPy over MATLAB is the control over the shapes and types of your arrays. So maybe it would be good to call out that the `array` function defaults to your data types and dimensions. 

I'm thinking about 2 inputs of MATLAB vs Python here:

1. A single integer input:
```matlab
> a=1
> shape(a)
ans =
  1 1
> class(a)
  ans = double
```
vs 
```python
>>> a=np.array(1)
>>> a.shape
  ()
>>> a.dtype
  dtype('int64')
```
2. A list of integers:
```matlab
> a=[1,2,3]
> shape(a)
ans = 
  1 3
> class(a)
  ans = double
```
vs
```python
>>> a=np.array([1,2,3])
>>> a.shape
(3,)
>>> a.dtype
  dtype('int64')
```

Reviewer 3: That definitely looks like something which would be useful to have somewhere on the page.

Perhap the matlab "list of integers" example should use `int8([1, 2, 3])` or whatever the matlab syntax is, for fairness.

Author: Maybe this example should go in the table below. The equivalent for matlab signed integers would be `int64([1,2,3])`.

.. list-table::

   * - In MATLAB®, the basic type is a multidimensional array. By default, MATLAB®
       creates two dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers.
       Operations on the 2D instances of these arrays are designed to act like
       matrix operations in linear algebra. Most expressions take such arrays and
       return arrays.
     - In NumPy, the basic type is a multidimensional ``array``. By default,

>        NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists,

Reviewer 3: Perhaps confusing, as `np.array([[1]])` is not 1D, even though it is a list.

Author: `np.array([[1]]).shape` is `(1,1)` so it is a 2D array. If you assign it to the variable `a=np.array([[1]])`, you can reference the `1` with `a[0,0]`.

This is a tripping point for Matlab users migrating to NumPy. Because in Matlab you would get the number 1 by calling 

`a`, `a(1)`, or `a(1,1)`, 

but in NumPy if you're trying to call the number `1`, you need to call out the value in the multidimensional array

`a[0,0]` -> the number `1`

`a[0]` -> a 1D array with one value, `1`

a -> a 2D array with one value, `1`

Maybe we need a little more details in this description.

Author: @eric-wieser, I've got 88 lines of rst (see below) that I could add to walk a matlab user through this idea of multidimensional arrays in numpy. I think it would fit in the Introduction at line 16. I pasted the code in a gist to see what others think. 

[MATLAB vs NumPy array creation defaults](https://gist.github.com/cooperrc/e023ee0cdf125b482a131fa992f329a7)

Reviewer 3: As a quick fix for this line then, perhaps:
```suggestion
       NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists of numbers,
```

Author: looks good to me, I'll make the change

       including 2D are element-wise operations.  One needs to use specific
       functions for linear algebra (though for matrix multiplication, one can
       use the ``@`` operator in python 3.5 and above).

   * - MATLAB® uses 1 (one) based indexing. The initial element of a
       sequence is found using a(1).
       :ref:`See note INDEXING <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`
     - Python uses 0 (zero) based indexing. The initial element of a
       sequence is found using a[0].

   * - MATLAB®'s scripting language was created for doing linear algebra so the
       syntax for some array manipulations is more compact than
       NumPy's. The syntax for basic matrix operations is nice and clean, but the
       API for adding GUIs and making full-fledged applications is more or less
       an afterthought.
     - NumPy is  based on Python, which was designed from the outset to be an
       excellent general-purpose programming language.  The advantage to NumPy
       is access to Python libraries including: `SciPy
       <https://www.scipy.org/>`_, `Matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_,
       `Pandas <https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_, `OpenCV <https://opencv.org/>`_,

>        and more. In addition to Python-specific packages, many `scientific
>        computing softwares

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       and more. In addition to Python-specific packages, much `scientific
       computing software
```

.. list-table::

   * - In MATLAB, the basic type is a multidimensional array. By default, MATLAB
       creates two-dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers.
       Operations on the 2D instances of these arrays are modeled on
       matrix operations in linear algebra. 
     - In NumPy, the basic type is a multidimensional ``array``. By default,
       NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists,
       respectively.  Operations on these arrays in all dimensionalities
       including 2D are element-wise operations.  One needs to use specific
       functions for linear algebra (though for matrix multiplication, one can
       use the ``@`` operator in Python 3.5 and above).

   * - MATLAB uses 1 (one) based indexing. The initial element of a
       sequence is found using a(1).
       :ref:`See note INDEXING <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`
     - Python uses 0 (zero) based indexing. The initial element of a

>        sequence is found using a[0].

Reviewer 2: - NumPy, like Python, numbers indexes from 0; a[0] is the first element.

>    * - MATLAB's scripting language was created for doing linear algebra so the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - MATLAB's scripting language was created for linear algebra so the
```

       syntax for some array manipulations is more compact than

>        NumPy's. The syntax for basic matrix operations is nice and clean, but the
>        API for adding GUIs and making full-fledged applications is more or less
>        an afterthought.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       NumPy's. On the other hand, the API for adding GUIs and creating 
       full-fledged applications is more or less an afterthought.
```

>      - NumPy is  based on Python, which was designed from the outset to be an
>        excellent general-purpose programming language.  The advantage to NumPy
>        is access to Python libraries including: `SciPy
>        <https://www.scipy.org/>`_, `Matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_,
>        `Pandas <https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_, `OpenCV <https://opencv.org/>`_,
>        and more. In addition to Python-specific packages, much `scientific
>        computing software
>        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Python_software#Embedded_as_a_scripting_language>`_
>        use Python as a scripting language. 

Reviewer 2: You don't have to word it exactly this way, but I thought since this was a guide to newcomers it would be helpful to give a short description of these packages. 

Note the lower-case spelling of matplotlib and pandas.

The Wikipedia entry seemed off-topic (it lists programs that can call out to Python rather than packages a Python program can call).

```suggestion
     - Because NumPy is based on Python, a general-purpose programming 
     language, users have access to the entire Python "scientific ecosystem," 
     whose packages include the computational tools of `SciPy
       <https://www.scipy.org/>`_, the plotting software of 
       `matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_,
      the data manipulation and analysis tool `pandas <https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_, 
      the image-processing library`OpenCV <https://opencv.org/>`_, and more.
```

Reviewer 3: > The Wikipedia entry seemed off-topic (it lists programs that can call out to Python rather than packages a Python program can call).

Agreed. https://scipy.org/topical-software.html may be a better link.

Author: > > The Wikipedia entry seemed off-topic (it lists programs that can call out to Python rather than packages a Python program can call).
> 
> Agreed. https://scipy.org/topical-software.html may be a better link.

The scipy.org is a good link to see where Python is used to build software. 

> The Wikipedia entry seemed off-topic (it lists programs that can call out to Python rather than packages a Python program can call).

I like the wiki entry because it lists scientific computing software that use Python as a scripting language. Which means you can create NumPy-based scripts to run FEA/CFD/dynamics/etc. without having to build it yourself. Then, you can post-process the data. We can drop it if its not of interest to the broader MATLAB conversions, but its one of the benefits people coming from MATLAB might not consider at first.

   * - In MATLAB, arrays have pass-by-value semantics, with a lazy
       copy-on-write scheme to prevent creating copies until they

>        are actually needed.  Slice operations copy parts of the array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       are needed.  Slice operations copy parts of the array.
```

     - In NumPy, arrays have pass-by-reference semantics.  Slice operations

>        are views into an array.

Reviewer 2: We should qualify this a little  (perhaps "arrays **often** have"). Slices are indeed views, but some operations return copies.

Reviewer 2: @eric-wieser "Pass by reference" isn't mine.

Author: Does this need a rewrite? How about:

`MATLAB array slicing uses pass-by-value semantics, with a lazy copy-on-write scheme to prevent creating copies until they are needed. Slice operation copy parts of the array.`

`NumPy array slicing uses pass-by-reference, that does not copy the arguments. Slice operations are views into an array.`

Author: Updated to the rewrite in a3b1c6e303d6a1261b6068f4d1e406c94d178e7a.

> Table of Rough MATLAB-NumPy Equivalents

Reviewer 2: They can see it's a table and the page is about MATLAB vs NumPy. 

Headings use lower case (so "equivalents," not "Equivalents").
```suggestion
Rough equivalents
```

=======================================

> The table below gives rough equivalents for some common MATLAB
> expressions. **These are not exact equivalents**, but rather should be
> taken as hints to get you going in the right direction. For more detail
> read the built-in documentation on the NumPy functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This table gives rough equivalents for some common MATLAB
expressions. These are workalikes, **not exact equivalents**, so 
read the documentation.
```

.. list-table::

>    * - In MATLAB, the basic type is a multidimensional array. By default, MATLAB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - In MATLAB, the basic nonscalar type is a multidimensional array. By default, MATLAB
```

Author: Matlab defaults to a 2D array even for scalar assignments. So when you say `a=1`, it creates a 1x1 array and assigns it to `a`. You can reference the `1` by using `a(1)` or `a(1,1)`. 

I don't think matlab has a "scalar" assignment option because all variables are given dimensions. It does consider a 1x1 matrix a scalar, so

```matlab
>> a=1
>> isscalar(a)
TF =
    1
>> isscalar(a(1,1))
TF =
    1
```

This is kind of a strange convention in matlab.

Reviewer 2: Interesting! 
```
- In MATLAB, the basic type, even for scalars, is a multidimensional array.
```
Ordinarily I wouldn't tell MATLAB users what they already know, but this behavior is going to be contrasted with NumPy's.

Author: I like that change, @bjnath . 

I'll add the `even for scalars`. MATLAB's choice of everything is a matrix makes some things easier, but if you're trying to convert your code to NumPy, there are a few hiccups like this that come up. 

I don't think most MATLAB users think about the difference between scalar/vector/matrix in normal operations because it all works out seemlessly.

>        creates two dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a hyphen fanatic, but I think most readers would expect to see one here.
```suggestion
       creates two-dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers.
```

>        Operations on the 2D instances of these arrays are designed to act like
>        matrix operations in linear algebra. Most expressions take such arrays and
>        return arrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       Operations on the 2D instances of these arrays are designed to act like
       matrix operations in linear algebra. Most expressions take such arrays and
       return arrays.
```
The second sentence doesn't add anything.
```suggestion
       Operations on the 2D instances of these arrays are modeled on
       matrix operations in linear algebra. 
```

     - In NumPy, the basic type is a multidimensional ``array``. By default,

>        NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists,

Reviewer 2: I don't understand "by default." Creating a NumPy array requires calling a routine, which means you have to make some choice.

Reviewer 5: From the sideline: It probably wants to say, unlike matlab where matrices always have two dimensions, NumPy will create 0-D or 1-D arrays unless `ndmin=2` is passed.

Author: Good point, I was trying to keep the sentence structure the same the table:

"By default, MATLAB creates two-dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers."

and

"By default, NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists, respectively."

How about this instead:

"Array assignments in MATLAB are stored as two-dimensional arrays of double precision floating point numbers, unless you specify the number of dimensions and type."

and

"Array assignments in NumPy are stored as N-dimensional arrays with the minimum type required to hold the objects in the sequence, unless you specify the number of dimensions and type."

Reviewer 2: > the minimum type required
Not always true. linspace, for instance, uses floats even when it can use ints. Maybe just "usually" will fix it.

Author: > This seems like a deft fix, but
> 
> > the minimum type required
> 
> is not always true. linspace, for instance, uses floats even when it can use ints. Maybe just "usually" will fix it.
> 
> Also
> 
> > two-dimensional
> 
> For consistency at least in this doc, I think we should go with the numeral 2.

OK, change was pushed

>        NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       NumPy creates 0-D or 1-D arrays for inputs of numbers or lists,
```
Here we have hyphens for dimensions; elsewhere we have `2D` with none.  I think I vote for no hyphens, but either way we should be consistent.

Author: hyphens were removed, thanks for catching that

>        respectively.  Operations on these arrays in all dimensionalities
>        including 2D are element-wise operations.  One needs to use specific
>        functions for linear algebra (though for matrix multiplication, one can
>        use the ``@`` operator in Python 3.5 and above).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       respectively.  NumPy performs operations element-by-element, so multiplying
       2D arrays with `*` is not a matrix multiplication -- it's an element-by-element 
       multiplication. (The `@` operator, available since Python 3.5, can be used
       for conventional matrix multiplication.)
       functions for linear algebra (though for matrix multiplication, one can
       use the ``@`` operator in Python 3.5 and above).
```

Reviewer 3: Double backticks for code (operators here) in rst @bjnath

   * - MATLAB uses 1 (one) based indexing. The initial element of a

>        sequence is found using a(1).

Author: I like this change, but I made one small edit
`MATLAB numbers indexes from 1; a(1) is the first element.`
to
`MATLAB numbers indices from 1; a(1) is the first element.`

>        sequence is found using a(1).

Reviewer 2: Thanks for making the change.

The [Google style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-i) has a rule for the plural of **index**:

> **index**
>     Use the plural indexes unless there is a domain-specific reason (for example, a mathematical or financial context) to use 

I think this is an "indexes" situation; calling it a mathematical context is a stretch. 

If our docs uniformly used "indices" we'd toss the rule, but that's not the case.

The two or three other "indices" instances on the page, which I overlooked, ought to be changed as well.

>        sequence is found using a(1).

Reviewer 3: Given numpy has a function `np.indices`, I think we should use that spelling everywhere.

>        sequence is found using a(1).

Author: > Given numpy has a function `np.indices`, I think we should use that spelling everywhere.

@bjnath, Thanks for the Google style guide. I think keeping the indices and `np.indices` would be nice to keep consistent with the numpy function. I would classify this as mathematical context, because we are discussing arrays and matrices. 

After this discussion, I noticed one other "indexes" -> "indices" on L580 in the __Notes__. I'll push the change with next commit.

>        sequence is found using a(1).

Reviewer 2: I loathe "indices" but others equally loathe "indexes," and I have no good counter for `np.indices`, which I guess goes back as far as one can go.  

I'll find a place to collect style rules that supplement or override Google's.

       functions for linear algebra (though for matrix multiplication, one can
       use the ``@`` operator in Python 3.5 and above).

   * - MATLAB uses 1 (one) based indexing. The initial element of a
       sequence is found using a(1).
       :ref:`See note INDEXING <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`
     - Python uses 0 (zero) based indexing. The initial element of a
       sequence is found using a[0].

   * - MATLAB®'s scripting language was created for doing linear algebra.
       The syntax for basic matrix operations is nice and clean, but the API
       for adding GUIs and making full-fledged applications is more or less
       an afterthought.
     - NumPy is  based on Python, which was designed from the outset to be
       an excellent general-purpose programming language.  While Matlab's
   * - MATLAB's scripting language was created for doing linear algebra so the
       syntax for some array manipulations is more compact than
       NumPy's, NumPy (by virtue of being an add-on to Python) can do many
       things that Matlab just cannot, for instance dealing properly with
       stacks of matrices.

>    * - In MATLAB®, arrays have pass-by-value semantics, with a lazy

Reviewer 3: The removal of `®` from these lines makes this a little harder to review. Would you be willing to do a very quick first-pass PR that does nothing but clean up the `®` symbols?

Author: Sure thing, I'll make another branch, "matlabcopyright", and submit the PR.

Author: Update: submitted PR #17215 that only removes the excess (R) symbols from MATLAB mentions. The only one left is the first mention as per @bjnath's reference.

       sequence is found using a[0].

   * - MATLAB®'s scripting language was created for doing linear algebra.
       MATLAB's syntax for some array manipulations is more compact than
       NumPy's.The syntax for basic matrix operations is nice and clean, but the

>        API for adding GUIs and making full-fledged applications is more or less

Reviewer 3: Missing space after the full stop. Also, the first sentence and first half of the second sentence would be better combined.

Author: Thanks for catching that. I could go either way with combining the sentences. My preference is shorter sentences, but I'll combine and let's take another look.

Reviewer 3: Looks good now, thanks.

   :header-rows: 1

   * - **MATLAB**

>      - **NumPy**

Author: That's true, we shouldn't encourage `import *`. 

I think it might be better to add `np.<func>` to the table. It will also help to separate `scipy.linalg` from `numpy.linalg` since there are overlapping functions.

>      - **NumPy**

Author: Latest commit removed the `import *` on L82. 

replaced those lines with 

```python
    import numpy as np
    from scipy import io, integrate, linalg, signal
    from scipy.sparse.linalg import eigs
```
commit 2812833bc5f1bb214ae86045e4582ceeb4b464dd

     - **Notes**

   * - ``help func``
     - ``info(func)`` or ``help(func)`` or ``func?`` (in Ipython)
     - get help on the function *func*

   * - ``which func``
     - `see note HELP <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`_
     - find out where *func* is defined

   * - ``type func``
     - ``source(func)`` or ``func??`` (in Ipython)
     - print source for *func* (if not a native function)

   * - ``% comment``
     - ``# comment``
     - comment a line of code ``comment``

   * - ::

         for i=1:3
             fprintf('%i\n',i)
         end

     - ::

>          for i in range(1,4):

Reviewer 3: Let's try to encourage PEP8 while we're translating,
```suggestion
         for i in range(1, 4):
```

            print(i)

>      - use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3

Author: I added the link to [range](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#func-range)

> use a for-loop to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3 using [range](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#func-range)

     - short-circuiting logical OR operator (Python native operator);
       scalar arguments only

   * - ::

         a=1
         if a==0
             fprintf('a=0\n')
         elseif a==1
             fprintf('a=1\n')
         end

     - ::

>          a=1
>          if a==0:
>              print('a=0')
>          elif a==1:
>              print('a=1')

Reviewer 3: PEP8
```suggestion
         a = 1
         if a == 0:
             print('a=0')
         elif a == 1:
             print('a=1')
```

>      - create an if-else statement to check if ``a`` is 0 or 1 and print result

Author: That's a great point that could be very confusing. I changed the values to `a=4`, `a == 4` and `a == 5`. 

I added a row above to reference the Python boolean:

     - ::
        >> 4 == 4
        ans = 1
        >> 4 == 5
        ans = 0

     - ::

        >>> 4 == 4
        True
        >>> 4 == 5
        False

The [boolean objects](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html?highlight=boolean#boolean-values) in Python are ``True`` and ``False``, as opposed to MATLAB logical types of ``1`` and ``0``.

   * - ``1*i``, ``1*j``,  ``1i``, ``1j``
     - ``1j``
     - complex numbers

   * - ``eps``
     - ``np.finfo(float).eps`` or ``np.spacing(1)``
     - Upper bound to relative error due to rounding in 64-bit floating point
       arithmetic.

   * - ``load data.mat``
     - ``scipy.io.loadmat('data.mat')``
     - load variables saved to the file ``data.mat`` note, if saving files from

>        MATLAB/Octave use a recent binary format. Python's ``loadmat`` will

Reviewer 3: Punctuation seems off here

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       MATLAB/Octave use a recent binary format, Python's ``loadmat`` will
```

Author: updated the punctuation in discussion column

>      - short-circuiting logical OR operator (Python native operator);

Reviewer 4: - short-circuiting logical OR operator (:ref:`Python native operator <python:boolean>`);

       scalar arguments only

   * - ::
        
        >> 4 == 4
        ans = 1
        >> 4 == 5
        ans = 0

     - ::

        >>> 4 == 4
        True
        >>> 4 == 5
        False

     - The `boolean objects

>        <python:boolean-values>`_

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
       The :ref:`boolean objects <python:bltin-boolean-values>`
```

>        <https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html?highlight=boolean#boolean-values>`_

Reviewer 3: Should be able to use an intersphinx link here, perhaps `<python:boolean-values>`

Author: > Should be able to use an intersphinx link here, perhaps `<python:boolean-values>`

Nice! That worked, I'll push the change on next commit.

       in Python are ``True`` and ``False``, as opposed to MATLAB
       logical types of ``1`` and ``0``. 

   * - ::

         a=4
         if a==4
             fprintf('a = 4\n')
         elseif a==5
             fprintf('a = 5\n')
         end

     - ::

         a = 4
         if a == 4:
             print('a = 4')
         elif a == 5: 
             print('a = 5')

     - create an if-else statement to check if ``a`` is 4 or 5 and print result

   * - ``1*i``, ``1*j``,  ``1i``, ``1j``
     - ``1j``
     - complex numbers

   * - ``eps``
     - ``np.finfo(float).eps`` or ``np.spacing(1)``
     - Upper bound to relative error due to rounding in 64-bit floating point
       arithmetic.

   * - ``load data.mat``
     - ``io.loadmat('data.mat')``
     - Load MATLAB variables saved to the file ``data.mat``. (Note: When saving arrays to

>        ``data.mat`` in MATLAB/Octave, use a recent binary format. Python's ``loadmat``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       ``data.mat`` in MATLAB/Octave, use a recent binary format. :func:`scipy.io.loadmat`
```

>        create a dictionary with arrays and further information)

Reviewer 3: (on mobile so can't select multiple lines)

There's something wrong with the grammar here. Are you trying to say "if saving from matlab using...", or "if saving from matlab, use ..."?

Author: trying to specify that if you're going to save arrays into the `data.mat` you have to use a binary format in MATLAB/Octave. 

how about:
`(Note: when saving arrays to ``data.mat`` in MATLAB/Octave, use a recent binary format. Python's ``loadmat`` will create a dictionary with the saved arrays and further information.)`

     - Notes

   * - ``ndims(a)``
     - ``np.ndim(a)`` or ``a.ndim``

>      - get the number of dimensions of the array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - number of dimensions of array ``a``
```

   * - ``numel(a)``
     - ``np.size(a)`` or ``a.size``

>      - get the number of elements of the array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - number of elements of array ``a``
```

   * - ``size(a)``
     - ``np.shape(a)`` or ``a.shape``

>      - get the "size" of the array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - "size" of array ``a``
```

   * - ``size(a,n)``
     - ``a.shape[n-1]``

>      - get the number of elements of the n-th dimension of array ``a``. (Note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - number of elements of the n-th dimension of array ``a``. (Note
```

>        that MATLAB uses 1 based indexing while Python uses 0 based indexing,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       that MATLAB uses 1-based indexing while Python uses 0-based indexing,
```

       See note :ref:`INDEXING <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`)

   * - ``[ 1 2 3; 4 5 6 ]``
     - ``np.array([[1.,2.,3.], [4.,5.,6.]])``
     - 2D array defined as 2x3 matrix

   * - ``[ a b; c d ]``
     - ``np.block([[a,b], [c,d]])``
     - construct a matrix from blocks ``a``, ``b``, ``c``, and ``d``

   * - ``a(end)``
     - ``a[-1]``
     - access last element in MATLAB vector (1xn or nx1) or 1D NumPy array
       ``a`` (length n)

   * - ``a(2,5)``
     - ``a[1,4]``

>      - access element in second row, fifth column in a 2D array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - access element in second row, fifth column in 2D array ``a``
```

   * - ``a(2,:)``
     - ``a[1]`` or  ``a[1,:]``

>      - entire second row of a 2D array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - entire second row of 2D array ``a``
```

Reviewer 3: This isn't really gramatically reasonable any more, even as a fragment - we can drop the articles at the start of the description, but it feels wrong to do so mid-description.

Reviewer 2: @eric-wieser  A grammatically parallel construction is  "Footprint of Apollo astronaut Neil Armstrong."

Reviewer 2: It's apposition, is legal, and nobody thinks twice.  "Sister of advice columnist Ann Landers." "Cover of book by NumPy creator Travis Oliphant." 

Consider alternatives:

<br>

> Footprint of the Apollo astronaut Neil Armstrong

Only if we're distinguishing it from "Footprint of the Indiana lawyer Neil Armstrong."

<br>

> Footprint of the Apollo astronaut, Neil Armstrong

This says there was only one Apollo astronaut.

<br>

> Footprint of an Apollo astronaut, Neil Armstrong

This suggests we're contrasting "Footprint of a Gemini astronaut, Gus Grissom."

<br>

> Footprint of an Apollo astronaut Neil Armstrong

Bad usage.

<br>

> Footprint of Apollo astronaut, Neil Armstrong

Bad usage.

<br>

"Footprint of Apollo astronaut Neil Armstrong" is in fact the best way to put it in this context, as is "entire second row of 2D array ``a``."

   * - ``a(1:5,:)``
     - ``a[0:5]`` or ``a[:5]`` or ``a[0:5,:]``

>      - the first five rows of a 2D array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - first five rows of 2D array ``a``
```

   * - ``a(end-4:end,:)``
     - ``a[-5:]``

>      - the last five rows of a 2D array, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - last five rows of 2D array ``a``
```

   * - ``a(1:3,5:9)``
     - ``a[0:3,4:9]``

>      - rows one to three and columns five to nine of a 2D array, ``a``. 

Reviewer 2: We can't say "row one" if the two notations disagree on what row 1 is. We need to stick to ordinals or draw a picture.

Reviewer 3: @bjnath, do you prefer this?
```suggestion
     - The first through third rows and fifth through ninth columns of a 2D array, ``a``. 
```

Reviewer 2: @eric-wieser Yes, this is what I had in mind.

   * - ``[ 1 2 3; 4 5 6 ]``
     - ``array([[1.,2.,3.], [4.,5.,6.]])``

>      - 2D array defined as 2x3 matrix

Author: After you pointed it out, I don't like it either. I'm replacing `matrix` with `2D array`, since there are places that sometimes refer to matrix as `2D matrix` and other times just `matrix`. 

Both MATLAB and NumPy deal with arrays, so I think its best to keep the `array` verbage.

   * - ``(a>0.5)``
     - ``(a>0.5)``
     - matrix whose i,jth element is (a_ij > 0.5).  The MATLAB result is an
       array of 0s and 1s.  The NumPy result is an array of the boolean
       values ``False`` and ``True``.

   * - ``find(a>0.5)``

>      - ``where(a>0.5)``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - ``nonzero(a>0.5)``
```
The overloading of `where` just confuses users. Furthermore, the docs for `where` advise preferring `nonzero` anyway.

     - ``a**3``
     - element-wise exponentiation

   * - ``(a > 0.5)``
     - ``(a > 0.5)``
     - matrix whose i,jth element is (a_ij > 0.5).  The MATLAB result is an

>        array of logical types 0 and 1.  The NumPy result is an array of the boolean
>        types ``False`` and ``True``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       array of logical values 0 and 1.  The NumPy result is an array of the boolean
       values ``False`` and ``True``.
```
Either "of boolean type" or "of boolean values False and True"

   * - ``y=x``
     - ``y = x.copy()``
     - NumPy assigns by reference

   * - ``y=x(2,:)``
     - ``y = x[1, :].copy()``
     - NumPy slices are by reference

   * - ``y=x(:)``
     - ``y = x.flatten()``
     - turn array into vector (note that this forces a copy). To obtain the
       same data ordering as in MATLAB, use ``x.flatten('F')``.

   * - ``1:10``
     - ``np.arange(1., 11.)`` or ``np.r_[1.:11.]`` or  ``np.r_[1:10:10j]``
     - create an increasing vector (see note :ref:`RANGES
       <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`)

   * - ``0:9``
     - ``np.arange(10.)`` or  ``np.r_[:10.]`` or  ``np.r_[:9:10j]``
     - create an increasing vector (see note :ref:`RANGES
       <numpy-for-matlab-users.notes>`)

   * - ``[1:10]'``

>      - ``np.arange(1.,11.)[:, newaxis]``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - ``np.arange(1.,11.)[:, np.newaxis]``
```

   * - ``diag(a)``
     - ``diag(a)``
     - returns a vector of the diagonal elements of 2D array, ``a``

   * - ``diag(v,0)``
     - ``diag(v,0)``
     - returns a square diagonal matrix whose nonzero values are the elements of
       vector, ``v``

   * - ::
         
         rng(42,'twister')
         rand(3,4)

     - ::

         from numpy.random import default_rng

>          rng=default_rng(42)

Reviewer 3: PEP8
```suggestion
         rng = default_rng(42)
```

     - ``U, S, Vh = linalg.svd(a), V = Vh.T``
     - singular value decomposition of ``a``

> 

Reviewer 4: `rank(a)` <-> `linalg.matrix_rank(a)` appears twice in the table

   * - ``chol(a)``
     - ``linalg.cholesky(a).T``

>      - cholesky factorization of a matrix (``chol(a)`` in matlab returns an

Reviewer 4: Cholesky should be capitalized.

>      - ``matrix_rank(a)``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - ``linalg.matrix_rank(a)``
```

   * - ``c=chol(a)`` where ``a==c'*c``

>      - ``c=linalg.cholesky(a)`` where ``a==c@c.T``

Reviewer 3: PEP8
```suggestion
     - ``c = linalg.cholesky(a)`` where ``a == c@c.T``
```

     - cholesky factorization of a matrix (``chol(a)`` in MATLAB returns an
       upper triangular matrix, but ``linalg.cholesky(a)`` returns a lower
       triangular matrix)

   * - ``[V,D]=eig(a)``
     - ``D,V = linalg.eig(a)``
     - eigenvalues :math:`\lambda` and eigenvectors :math:`\bar{v}` of ``a``,
       where :math:`\lambda\bar{v}=\mathbf{a}\bar{v}`

   * - ``[V,D]=eig(a,b)``
     - ``D,V = scipy.linalg.eig(a,b)``
     - eigenvalues :math:`\lambda` and eigenvectors :math:`\bar{v}` of
       ``a``, ``b``
       where :math:`\lambda\mathbf{b}\bar{v}=\mathbf{a}\bar{v}`

   * - ``[V,D]=eigs(a,3)``
     - ``D,V = scipy.sparse.linalg.eigs(a,k=3)``
     - find the ``k=3`` largest eigenvalues and eigenvectors of 2D array, ``a``

   * - ``[Q,R,P]=qr(a,0)``
     - ``Q,R = scipy.linalg.qr(a)``
     - QR decomposition

   * - ``[L,U,P]=lu(a)`` where ``a==P'*L*U``
     - ``P,L,U = scipy.linalg.lu(a)`` where ``a==P@L@U``

>      - LU decomposition (note: P(MATLAB) == transpose(P(NumPy)) )

Reviewer 4: Extra space before the last parenthesis.

     - ``U, S, Vh = linalg.svd(a), V = Vh.T``
     - singular value decomposition of ``a``

   * - ``c=chol(a)`` where ``a==c'*c``
     - ``c = linalg.cholesky(a)`` where ``a == c@c.T``

>      - cholesky factorization of a matrix (``chol(a)`` in MATLAB returns an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Cholesky factorization of a matrix (``chol(a)`` in MATLAB returns an
```

       triangular matrix)

   * - ``[V,D]=eig(a)``
     - ``D,V = linalg.eig(a)``
     - eigenvalues :math:`\lambda` and eigenvectors :math:`\bar{v}` of ``a``,
       where :math:`\lambda\bar{v}=\mathbf{a}\bar{v}`

   * - ``[V,D]=eig(a,b)``
     - ``D,V = linalg.eig(a,b)``
     - eigenvalues :math:`\lambda` and eigenvectors :math:`\bar{v}` of
       ``a``, ``b``
       where :math:`\lambda\mathbf{b}\bar{v}=\mathbf{a}\bar{v}`

   * - ``[V,D]=eigs(a,3)``
     - ``D,V = eigs(a,k=3)``
     - find the ``k=3`` largest eigenvalues and eigenvectors of 2D array, ``a``

   * - ``[Q,R,P]=qr(a,0)``
     - ``Q,R = linalg.qr(a)``
     - QR decomposition

   * - ``[L,U,P]=lu(a)`` where ``a==P'*L*U``
     - ``P,L,U = linalg.lu(a)`` where ``a==P@L@U``
     - LU decomposition (note: P(MATLAB) == transpose(P(NumPy)))

   * - ``conjgrad``
     - ``cg``
     - Conjugate gradients solver

   * - ``fft(a)``
     - ``np.fft(a)``
     - Fourier transform of ``a``

   * - ``ifft(a)``
     - ``np.ifft(a)``
     - inverse Fourier transform of ``a``

   * - ``sort(a)``
     - ``np.sort(a)`` or ``a.sort(axis=0)``
     - sort each column of a 2D matrix, ``a``

   * - ``sort(a,2)``

>      - ``np.sort(a,axis=1)`` or ``a.sort(axis=1)``

Reviewer 3: PEP8
```suggestion
     - ``np.sort(a, axis=1)`` or ``a.sort(axis=1)``
```

>      - sort the each row of 2D matrix, ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - sort each row of 2D matrix, ``a``
```

   * - ``[b,I]=sortrows(a,1)``

>      - ``I=np.argsort(a[:,0]); b=a[I,:]``

Reviewer 3: PEP8
```suggestion
     - ``I = np.argsort(a[:,0]); b = a[I,:]``
```

     - save the array ``a`` as array ``b`` with rows sorted by the first column

>    * - ``Z\y``
>      - ``linalg.lstsq(Z,y)``
>      - perform a linear regression of the form :math:`\mathbf{Zx}=\mathbf{y}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * - ``x = Z\y``
     - ``x = linalg.lstsq(Z,y)``
     - perform a linear regression of the form :math:`\mathbf{Zx}=\mathbf{y}`
```
otherwise it's not clear what `x` is

Reviewer 3: Or maybe
```suggestion
   * - ``Z\y``
     - ``linalg.lstsq(Z,y)``
     - the solution :math:`x` to a linear regression of the form :math:`\mathbf{Zx}=\mathbf{y}`
```

   * - ``decimate(x, q)``
     - ``signal.resample(x, np.ceil(len(x)/q))``
     - downsample with low-pass filtering

   * - ``unique(a)``
     - ``np.unique(a)``

>      - returns a vector of unique values in array ``a``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - return a vector of unique values in array ``a``
```

Reviewer 3: Or even just
```suggestion
     - a vector of unique values in array ``a``
```

   * - ``squeeze(a)``
     - ``a.squeeze()``

>      - remove singleton dimensions of array ``a`` Note that MATLAB will always

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - remove singleton dimensions of array ``a``. Note that MATLAB will always
```

   * - ``sort(a, 2)``
     - ``np.sort(a, axis = 1)`` or ``a.sort(axis = 1)``
     - sort the each row of 2D array, ``a``

   * - ``[b,I]=sortrows(a,1)``
     - ``I = np.argsort(a[:, 0]); b = a[I,:]``
     - save the array ``a`` as array ``b`` with rows sorted by the first column

   * - ``x = Z\y``
     - ``x = linalg.lstsq(Z, y)``
     - perform a linear regression of the form :math:`\mathbf{Zx}=\mathbf{y}`

   * - ``decimate(x, q)``
     - ``signal.resample(x, np.ceil(len(x)/q))``
     - downsample with low-pass filtering

   * - ``unique(a)``
     - ``np.unique(a)``
     - returns a vector of unique values in array ``a``

   * - ``squeeze(a)``
     - ``a.squeeze()``
     - remove singleton dimensions of array ``a`` Note that MATLAB will always
       return arrays of 2D or higher while NumPy will return arrays of 0D or
       higher

.. _numpy-for-matlab-users.notes:

Notes
=====

\ **Submatrix**: Assignment to a submatrix can be done with lists of
indices using the ``ix_`` command. E.g., for 2D array ``a``, one might
do: ``ind=[1, 3]; a[np.ix_(ind, ind)] += 100``.

\ **HELP**: There is no direct equivalent of MATLAB's ``which`` command,

> but the commands ``help`` and ``source`` will usually list the filename

Reviewer 4: I'm pretty sure `source` does not work anymore. The best option is `inspect.getfile(func)`, I think.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
but the commands :func:`help`` and :func:`numpy.source` will usually list the filename
```

     - inverse Fourier transform of ``a``

   * - ``sort(a)``
     - ``sort(a)`` or ``a.sort()``
     - sort the matrix
     - ``sort(a)`` or ``a.sort(axis=0)``
     - sort each column of a 2D matrix, ``a``

>    * - ``[b,I] = sortrows(a,i)``

Reviewer 3: I think this one is still worth keeping

Author: I can put this back in, but the description needs an update. This is not sorting rows, its sorting the entire array by row based upon a column number, `i`.  e.g.

```matlab
A=[1,2,3;3,2,1;2,3,1]
sortrows(A,1)
ans =

   1   2   3
   2   3   1
   3   2   1
```
vs

```python
>>> A = np.array([[1,2,3],[3,2,1],[2,3,1]])
>>> I = argsort(A[:,0])
>>> A[I,:]
    array([[1, 2, 3],
           [2, 3, 1],
           [3, 2, 1]])
```

Author: I added the `sortrows` for matlab again, but distinguished it from a typical sort:

* ``[b,I]=sortrows(a,1)``
* ``I=argsort(a[:,0]); b=a[I,:]``

`save the array ``a`` as array ``b`` with rows sorted by the first column`

where the function is located. Python also has an ``inspect`` module (do
``import inspect``) which provides a ``getfile`` that often works.

> \ **INDEXING**: MATLAB uses one based indexing, so the initial element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\ **INDEXING**: MATLAB uses 1-based indexing, so the initial element
```

> of a sequence has index 1. Python uses zero based indexing, so the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of a sequence has index 1. Python uses 0-based indexing, so the
```

See also `a text by prof.dr. Edsger W.

> Dijkstra <https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/transcriptions/EWD08xx/EWD831.html>`__.

Reviewer 2: Please delete the entire section beginning "Confusion and flamewars"
```
initial element of a sequence has index 0. Confusion and flamewars arise
```
and ending with 
```
Dijkstra <https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/transcriptions/EWD08xx/EWD831.html>`__.
```

If you know you have boolean arguments, you can get away with using
NumPy's bitwise operators, but be careful with parentheses, like this: z
= (x > 1) & (x < 2). The absence of NumPy operator forms of logical\_and
and logical\_or is an unfortunate consequence of Python's design.

**RESHAPE and LINEAR INDEXING**: MATLAB always allows multi-dimensional
arrays to be accessed using scalar or linear indices, NumPy does not.
Linear indices are common in MATLAB programs, e.g. find() on a matrix
returns them, whereas NumPy's find behaves differently. When converting
MATLAB code it might be necessary to first reshape a matrix to a linear
sequence, perform some indexing operations and then reshape back. As
reshape (usually) produces views onto the same storage, it should be
possible to do this fairly efficiently. Note that the scan order used by
reshape in NumPy defaults to the 'C' order, whereas MATLAB uses the
Fortran order. If you are simply converting to a linear sequence and
back this doesn't matter. But if you are converting reshapes from MATLAB
code which relies on the scan order, then this MATLAB code: z =
reshape(x,3,4); should become z = x.reshape(3,4,order='F').copy() in
NumPy.

> 'array' or 'matrix'? Which should I use?

Reviewer 3: Was this section edited or just moved?

Author: This was moved, not edited.

If you know you have boolean arguments, you can get away with using
NumPy's bitwise operators, but be careful with parentheses, like this: z
= (x > 1) & (x < 2). The absence of NumPy operator forms of logical\_and
and logical\_or is an unfortunate consequence of Python's design.

**RESHAPE and LINEAR INDEXING**: MATLAB always allows multi-dimensional
arrays to be accessed using scalar or linear indices, NumPy does not.
Linear indices are common in MATLAB programs, e.g. find() on a matrix
returns them, whereas NumPy's find behaves differently. When converting
MATLAB code it might be necessary to first reshape a matrix to a linear
sequence, perform some indexing operations and then reshape back. As
reshape (usually) produces views onto the same storage, it should be
possible to do this fairly efficiently. Note that the scan order used by
reshape in NumPy defaults to the 'C' order, whereas MATLAB uses the
Fortran order. If you are simply converting to a linear sequence and
back this doesn't matter. But if you are converting reshapes from MATLAB
code which relies on the scan order, then this MATLAB code: z =
reshape(x,3,4); should become z = x.reshape(3,4,order='F').copy() in
NumPy.

> 

Reviewer 4: Here and above, some of the code (e.g. "z = reshape(x, 3, 4)") is not surrounded by backticks, which makes the rendering less clear for those reading. Would it be possible to review the document and add backticks to inline code expressions so they are rendered in code-mode?

Author: I went through these paragraphs and found the inline code. Glad you caught those.

'array' or 'matrix'? Which should I use?
========================================

Historically, NumPy has provided a special matrix type, `np.matrix`, which
is a subclass of ndarray which makes binary operations linear algebra
operations. You may see it used in some existing code instead of `np.array`.
So, which one to use?

Short answer
------------

**Use arrays**.

-  They support multidimensional array algebra that is supported in MATLAB

> -  They are the standard vector/matrix/tensor type of NumpY. Many NumPy

Reviewer 4: NumpY -> NumPy

   -  ``<:(`` Maximum of two-dimensional. To hold three-dimensional data you
      need ``array`` or perhaps a Python list of ``matrix``.
   -  ``<:(`` Minimum of two-dimensional. You cannot have vectors. They must be
      cast as single-column or single-row matrices.
   -  ``<:(`` Since ``array`` is the default in NumPy, some functions may
      return an ``array`` even if you give them a ``matrix`` as an
      argument. This shouldn't happen with NumPy functions (if it does
      it's a bug), but 3rd party code based on NumPy may not honor type
      preservation like NumPy does.
   -  ``:)`` ``A*B`` is matrix multiplication, so it looks just like you write
      it in linear algebra (For Python >= 3.5 plain arrays have the same
      convenience with the ``@`` operator).
   -  ``<:(`` Element-wise multiplication requires calling a function,
      ``multiply(A,B)``.
   -  ``<:(`` The use of operator overloading is a bit illogical: ``*``
      does not work element-wise but ``/`` does.
   -  Interaction with ``scipy.sparse`` is a bit cleaner.

The ``array`` is thus much more advisable to use.  Indeed, we intend to
deprecate ``matrix`` eventually.

> Customizing Your Environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customizing your environment
```

    import numpy as np
    # 
    # Make the SciPy linear algebra functions available as linalg.func()
    # e.g. linalg.lu, linalg.eig (for general l*B@u==A@u solution)
    from scipy import linalg
    #
    # Define a Hermitian function
    def hermitian(A, **kwargs):
        return np.conj(A,**kwargs).T
    # Make a shortcut for hermitian:
    #    hermitian(A) --> H(A)
    H = hermitian

To use the deprecated `matrix` and other `matlib` functions:

::
    
    # Make all matlib functions accessible at the top level via M.func()
    import numpy.matlib as M
    # Make some matlib functions accessible directly at the top level via, e.g. rand(3,3)
    from numpy.matlib import matrix,rand,zeros,ones,empty,eye

Links
=====

See http://mathesaurus.sf.net/ for another MATLAB/NumPy
cross-reference.

An extensive list of tools for scientific work with Python can be
found in the `topical software page <https://scipy.org/topical-software.html>`__.

See
`List of Python software: scripting
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Python_software#Embedded_as_a_scripting_language>`_
for a list of Scientific packages that use Python as a scripting language

> MATLAB and SimuLink® are registered trademarks of The MathWorks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MATLAB and SimuLink® are registered trademarks of MathWorks.
```

Reviewer 3: Let's keep the (r) on matlab too

    import numpy as np
    # 
    # Make the SciPy linear algebra functions available as linalg.func()
    # e.g. linalg.lu, linalg.eig (for general l*B@u==A@u solution)
    from scipy import linalg
    #
    # Define a Hermitian function
    def hermitian(A, **kwargs):
        return np.conj(A,**kwargs).T
    # Make a shortcut for hermitian:
    #    hermitian(A) --> H(A)
    H = hermitian

To use the deprecated `matrix` and other `matlib` functions:

::
    
    # Make all matlib functions accessible at the top level via M.func()
    import numpy.matlib as M
    # Make some matlib functions accessible directly at the top level via, e.g. rand(3,3)
    from numpy.matlib import matrix,rand,zeros,ones,empty,eye

Links
=====

Another somewhat outdated MATLAB/NumPy cross-reference can be found at
http://mathesaurus.sf.net/

An extensive list of tools for scientific work with Python can be
found in the `topical software page <https://scipy.org/topical-software.html>`__.

See
`List of Python software: scripting
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Python_software#Embedded_as_a_scripting_language>`_
for a list of softwares that use Python as a scripting language

> MATLAB®  and SimuLink® are registered trademarks of MathWorks.

Reviewer 3: Let's put this back as it was, the `The` is what the matlab webpages say
```suggestion
MATLAB® and SimuLink® are registered trademarks of The MathWorks, Inc.
```

    # Make all numpy available via shorter 'np' prefix
    import numpy as np
    # 
    # Make the SciPy linear algebra functions available as linalg.func()
    # e.g. linalg.lu, linalg.eig (for general l*B@u==A@u solution)
    from scipy import linalg
    #
    # Define a Hermitian function
    def hermitian(A, **kwargs):
        return np.conj(A,**kwargs).T
    # Make a shortcut for hermitian:
    #    hermitian(A) --> H(A)
    H = hermitian

To use the deprecated `matrix` and other `matlib` functions:

::
    
    # Make all matlib functions accessible at the top level via M.func()
    import numpy.matlib as M
    # Make some matlib functions accessible directly at the top level via, e.g. rand(3,3)
    from numpy.matlib import matrix,rand,zeros,ones,empty,eye

Links
=====

> See http://mathesaurus.sf.net/ for another MATLAB/NumPy

Reviewer 3: This site is rather out of date regarding both python and numpy versions. Perhaps we should indicate that it is outdated.

Author: That's true, we can specify that its out of date. 

As an alternative link, there's a RealPython article on [MATLAB vs Python](https://realpython.com/matlab-vs-python/), maybe we could add this in the references.

Reviewer 3: I'd be fine for now with just 
```
Another somewhat outdated MATLAB/NumPy cross-reference can be found at http://mathesaurus.sf.net/
```

Author: `Another somewhat outdated MATLAB/NumPy cross-reference can be found at http://mathesaurus.sf.net/`

updated reference in commit: de298885a4725889512e8172534d134b630c4da6

> An extensive list of tools for scientific work with python can be

Reviewer 4: Python should be capitalized.
